You can also achieve dependency injection with the service and repository annotations.
The component annotation is too generic.
You should use the service and repository annotations instead.
In this lesson, you will do just that.
You will use the service and repository annotations.
Now service repository component.
They are all the same.
Service and repository are no different than components.
Any of these annotations will turn a class into a bean.
We use the component annotation everywhere and it worked fine.
But it's good practice to mark the service class using the service annotation.
And the repository class using the repository annotation.
It makes your code easier to read.
I can quickly look at the annotation and know that this is the service layer and this is the repository
layer.
Now fun fact controller also derives from component.
Spring Boots scans your project for component classes because controller derives from component.
It turns great controller into a been the great controller.
Bean is just an object that lives inside of the spring container and from the spring container, spring
boot manages the great controller being behind the scenes and that's why it seems like magic when it's
able to handle web requests.
Great controller uses its specialized handler methods to serve web requests.
Great service is a been.
Great repository is a been.
Idle Wired injects the grade service bean into one of great controllers fields.
And in turn, Auto Wired injects the great repository bean into one of the great services fields.
So to recap, you use service and repository instead of component.
Service and repository are no different than components.
Any of these annotations will register their classes a bean.
Although we could use components for every class.
It's good practice to use service for the business logic layer and repository for the data access layer.